Hello, this is I'm J.B. I'm with Austin Home
Brew Supply in Austin Texas and today I'm
going to discuss a little bit about equipment
regarding making your own beer and your own
wine at home. Now one of the things that you'll
want to do when making your own beer and your
own wine. Is take something called a hydrometer
reading. Hydrometer measures the density of
a liquid. OK, so it allows us to know what's
going on with the fermentation. It's one of
the only ways that we have as experts here
to be able to help you troubleshoot. What's
going on with your fermentation. So that being
said it's obvious that taking accurate hydrometer
readings is really important. So one of the
tools thats come along in the last few years
is made by a company called Firm Tech and
they make a couple of really, really nice
products. Now this one I think is really slick
it's called The Thief. OK, this is the Firm
Tech, Thief. What this guy is. Is a simple
plastic tube with a valve built in onto the
end of it. So now this valve the way it works
is at this point it's closed and at this point
it's open. So what how does this thing work?
What you do with this is say you have a vessel
like this full of liquid that you wanted to
take a density reading on. Using your hydrometers.
So the hydrometer measures the density of
liquid. Now The Thief which costs eight dollars
by the way. If you wanted to get a hydrometer
reading out of this glass container. Will
if I drop this hydrometer into it. I mean
retrieving it's going to be just this side
of impossible. So this is how you take a hydrometer
reading. You would make sure that every things
sanitized and don't have you hands all over
it like I do here but you would simply. Put
the hydrometer into The Thief let it slowly
come to the bottom. Then what I'll do is immerse
it into into the liquid. I just have a colored
liquid here. So that we can see what's going
on and just shake it a little bit and that
will get this guy to fill up and if you see
when I pull it out of here. If I got enough
liquid in here to where the actual hydrometers
floating. Then you can read your density right
off the line where the meniscus is here at
the hydrometer. So this item here is called
The Thief it allows you to get a hydrometer
sample out of a glass carboy. Once you done
if you touch it against the inside like I'm
doing here. It'll drain back down into the
carboy. Allowing you not to have to waist
anything during your, during your testing
procedure. So this guy here is called The
Firm Tech Thief. Highly recommended great
little product.